Productivity
============

…as a consolero
---------------

The nice fancy computer world. Full of user-friendliness. We are surrounded by
graphical user interfaces or GUIs everywhere. GUIs had their debut in 1995 with
Microsoft Windows 95 at home and Window NT 4. Everything before, Windows 3.11,
Windows NT 3.5 and OS/2 where graphical, too. But the whole idea of having a
computer at home was still quite new.

Today we even have a new paradigm. They call it NUI for "Natural User Interace"
and mean touch driven interfaces on tablets, mobile phones and some notebooks.

The early hackers had graphical user interfaces quite earlier. They invented
them in the 80s and used them on machines which would rarely be recognised as a
computer by most of todays "nerds".

I personally started my adventure in 1995. But no fancy Windows driven IBM
machine gave me the plesure of digitalized magic. It was an aged Commodore 64,
driven by the Commodore Basic system. It frankly greeted me with blue colours
and a simple prompt. We rarely communicated via Mouse and iconic symbols but
with words, soldered in the pure logic of a programing language – and I was ten
years old.

Later – in 1999 – all the fancy graphical things came over me and a whole new
world opened its gates for me. Of course it was Windows. For a couple of years
it was my main interface for communcating with computers. I had a lot of fun.

But I got healed soon…
----------------------

Or re-enlighted? I don't know, but what I know is, that Linux came its way and
it was great! Around 2002 I installed a modern operating system and no
graphical user interface greeted me afterwards. The World of TUIs a.k.a. Text
User Interfaces was back and with it the hard way of learning productivity and
the love in every detail.

Of course, technical barriers made it complicated to have all the fancy
graphical things. The open source world had to reinvend a whole bunch of wheels
for their freedom. The price was maybe high but what they did meant to become a
beautiful world of useful standards, security, productivity and freedom of
choice.

Later on I was able to have hardware accelerated desktop effects like burning,
semi-transparent menus. I played alot with that but what do I use today? My
notebook can surely handle a steamy, rotating and video playing cube flying
over a cityscape-like representation of my filesystem. But what I want is
productivity. So I use terminals, mostly around three of them. And I don't use
a window "viewer" (I know, they call it window manager, too) but a real window
manager. No integrated desktop environment, no iconic symbols cluttering up my
wallpaper. I had them all but I found my way back to the puristic roots.

Roots
-----

What I use is DWM¹, one of the most simple and featureless window managers as
far as I know. I even have to recompile it if I want to change some
configurations. I had to patch² its sources to handle modern TTF-Fonts, because
of my favourite fixed-with font Monofur³. I also have all the awesome new
things like UTF-8, millions of colours* – in my console.

Also I'm totally used to things you may get slowly familiar with in the newer
versions of Microsofts or Apples operating systems. For example a central place
to get software. The time where someone had to find an installation executable
somewhere in the wast planes of the internet are slowly ending. For Linux users
these times are over since at least 15 years.



* I actually only use 256 for text but I can view images as normal inside my
  console.

1) https://dwm.suckless.org
2) 
3) http://www.eurofurence.net/monofur.html
